Loud Wooden Mantis

Medium

# `stablecoin::StablecoinHandler.sol` has `renounceRole` function from OpenZepellin's `AccessControlUpgradeable.sol` that can be called, making all the primary functions uncallable

### Summary

The `StablecoinHandler` contract inherits from OpenZeppelin’s `AccessControlUpgradeable`, which provides a `renounceRole` function allowing any account to renounce roles it has been assigned. This allows the assignees to renounce their SWAPPER_ROLE, MAINTAINER_ROLE and PAUSER_ROLE, effectively removing their authority to call the functions in the contract. This makes the contract's functionality useless.

### Root Cause

This is a public function in the OpenZeppelin's `AccessControlUpgradeable.sol` contract.
https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts-upgradeable/blob/ee3a7e4f38c62bcd22727489218b29f3b893594a/contracts/access/AccessControlUpgradeable.sol#L178C1-L184C6

```javascript
function renounceRole(bytes32 role, address callerConfirmation) public virtual {
        if (callerConfirmation != _msgSender()) {
            revert AccessControlBadConfirmation();
        }

        _revokeRole(role, callerConfirmation);
    }
```
The assignees can use this function as it is public, and renounce their important roles i.e., SWAPPER_ROLE, MAINTAINER_ROLE and PAUSER_ROLE, making the functions uncallable

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

- An assignee calls the `renounceRole` function within the `AmirX.sol` contract, which inherits from `StablecoinHandler.sol`. It could be called by an attacker, if the wallet was somehow compromised too.
- He can successfully renounce the `SWAPPER_ROLE`, `MAINTAINER_ROLE` or `PAUSER_ROLE`, effectively removing their authority to make the function calls.

### Impact

This bug undermines the functionality of the contract. Since this can renounce the specific roles, the contract is potentially unusable.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Override the `renounceRole` function to prevent from renouncing the role. Implement the following code to restrict `renounceRole` functionality:

```javascript
function renounceRole(bytes32, address) public virtual override {
    revert OperationNotAllowed();
}
```

This modification ensures that anyone can't renounce the `SWAPPER_ROLE`, `MAINTAINER_ROLE` and `PAUSER_ROLE`, preserving the functionality of the contract.